Add a simple doc for libf3d (#337)
f3d-app/f3d: README_libf3d.md

# libf3d - A library to render 3D meshes

By Michael Migliore and Mathieu Westphal.

libf3d is a BSD-licensed C++ library to open and render 3D meshes. It is of course used by F3D.
libf3d API is simple and easy to learn. Python bindings are provided through pybind11.

# Getting Started

Rendering a file and starting the interaction is very easy:

```
// Create a f3d::engine
f3d::engine eng();

/ Add a file to the loader and load it
eng.getLoader().addFile("path/to/file.ext").loadFile();

// Render the file in the window

> eng.getWindow().render();

Reviewer: is it required? Starting the interactor triggers a render, right?

Reviewer: If you want to showcase the access to the window, then maybe call `setSize` or something

Author: indeed, should not be necessary, but i forgot to add a test, I will.

Author: It is tested exstensivedly by F3D.

// Start interacting
eng.getInteractor().start();
```

Changing some options can be done this way:

```
f3d::engine eng();

// Recover the options
f3d::options& options = eng.getOptions();

// Set the option to the wanted value
options.set("options.render.ssao", true);

// Standard libf3d usage
eng.getLoader().addFile("path/to/file.ext").loadFile();
eng.getInteractor().start();
```
Most options are dynamic, some are only taken into account when loading a file. See the ##options## documentation.

For more advanced usage, please take a look at the testing directory.

# Engine class

The engine class is the main class that needs to be instantiated. All other classes instance are provided by the engine using getters, `getLoader`, `getWindow`, `getInteractor`, `getOptions`.

> The engine constructor let you choose the type of window in its constructor, `NONE`, `NATIVE`, `NATIVE_OFFSCREEN`, `EXTERNAL`. Default is `NATIVE`. See ##Window class## documentation for more info. Please note that the engine will not provide a interactor with `NONE` and `EXTERNAL`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The engine constructor lets you choose the type of window in its constructor, `NONE`, `NATIVE`, `NATIVE_OFFSCREEN`, `EXTERNAL`. Default is `NATIVE`. See ##Window class## documentation for more info. Please note that the engine will not provide an interactor with `NONE` and `EXTERNAL`.
```

* EXTERNAL
A window where the OpenGL context is not created but assumed to have been created externally. To be used with other frameworks like Qt or GLFW.

Window let you `render`, `renderToImage` and control other parameters of the window, like icon or windowName.

# Interactor class

When provided by the engine, the interactor class lets you choose how to interact with the data.

It contains the animation API to start and stop it.
Interactor also lets you set your interaction callbacks in order to modify how the interaction with the data is done.
Of course, you can use `start` and `stop` to control it.
It also lets you define you own callbacks when needed.

# Camera class

Provided by the window, this class let you control the camera. There are essentially three API.
 1. A Position/FocalPoint/ViewUp API to put the camera where you want it.
 2. A camera movement API to move the camera around
 3. A ViewMatrix API to work with matrices directly.

Please note that the API 1. and 2. can be used together and always orthogonalize the view up after each call.

> API 3. is not intended to be used with other API as it can result to unexpected cameras.

Reviewer: Maybe specify it's for advanced users, and that we use a 4x4 matrix.

# libf3d - A library to render 3D meshes

By Michael Migliore and Mathieu Westphal.

libf3d is a BSD-licensed C++ library to open and render 3D meshes. It is of course used by F3D.
libf3d API is simple and easy to learn. Python bindings are provided through pybind11.

# Getting Started

Rendering a file and starting the interaction is very easy:

```
// Create a f3d::engine
f3d::engine eng();

> // Recover the file loader
> f3d::loader& load = eng.getLoader();
> 
> // Add a file to the loader
> load.addFile("path/to/file.ext");
> 
> // Load the file
> load.loadFile();

Reviewer: It would be great to call the API like this, but it will require changes in the loader API.

```suggestion
eng.getLoader()                 // Recover the file loader
   .addFile("path/to/file.ext") // Add a file to the loader
   .loadFile();                 // Load the file
```

Author: done in #342

// Recover the window
f3d::window& win = eng.getWindow();

// Render the file in the window
win.render();

// Recover the interactor
f3d::interactor& inter = eng.getInteractor();

// Start interacting
inter.start();
```

Changing some options can be done this way:

```
f3d::engine eng();

// Recover the options
f3d::options& options = eng.getOptions();

// Set the option to the wanted value
options.set("options.render.ssao", true);

// Standard libf3d usage
f3d::loader& load = eng.getLoader();
load.addFile("path/to/file.ext");
load.loadFile();
f3d::window& win = eng.getWindow();
f3d::interactor& inter = eng.getInteractor();
inter.start();
```
Most options are dynamic, some are only taken into account when loading a file. See the ##options## documentation.

> For more advanced usage, please take a look in the testing directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more advanced usage, please take a look at the testing directory.
```

# Engine class

> The engine class is the main class that needs to be instanciated. All other classes instance are provided by the engine using getters, `getLoader`, `getWindow`, `getInteractor`, `getOptions`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The engine class is the main class that needs to be instantiated. All other classes instance are provided by the engine using getters, `getLoader`, `getWindow`, `getInteractor`, `getOptions`.
```

> The engine constructor let you choose the type of window in its constructor, `NONE`, `NATIVE`, `NATIVE_OFFSCREEN`, `EXTERNAL`. Default is `NATIVE`. See ##Window class## documentation for more info. Please not that the engine will not provided a interactor with `NONE` and `EXTERNAL`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The engine constructor let you choose the type of window in its constructor, `NONE`, `NATIVE`, `NATIVE_OFFSCREEN`, `EXTERNAL`. Default is `NATIVE`. See ##Window class## documentation for more info. Please note that the engine will not provide an interactor with `NONE` and `EXTERNAL`.
```

# Loader class

> The loader class is responsible to read and load the file from disk. It support reading multiple files and even folders.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The loader class is responsible to read and load the file from the disk. It supports reading multiple files and even folders.
```

# Window class

The window class is responsible for rendering the meshes. It supports multiple modes.

* NONE
A window that will not render anything, very practical when only trying to recover meta-information about the data.

* NATIVE
Default mode where a window is shown onscreen using native graphical capabilities.

* NATIVE_OFFSCREEN
Use native graphical capabilities for rendering, but unto an offscreen window, which will not appear on screen, practical when generating screenshots.

* EXTERNAL

> A window where the OpenGL context is not created but assumed to have been created externally. To be used with other framework like Qt or GLFW.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A window where the OpenGL context is not created but assumed to have been created externally. To be used with other frameworks like Qt or GLFW.
```

Window let you `render`, `renderToImage` and control other parameters of the window, like icon or windowName.

# Interactor class

When provided by the engine, the interactor class lets you choose how to interact with the data.

It contains the animation API to start and stop it.
Interactor also lets you set your interaction callbacks in order to modify how the interaction with the data is done.
Of course, you can use `start` and `stop` to control it.
It also lets you define you own callbacks when needed.

# Camera class

> Provided by the window, this class let you control the camera. There is essentially three API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provided by the window, this class let you control the camera. There are essentially three API.
```

 1. A Position/FocalPoint/ViewUp API to put the camera where you want it.
 2. A camera movement API to move the camera around
 3. A ViewMatrix API to work with matrices directly.

> Please note the API 1. and 2. can be used together and always orthogonalize the view up after each call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that the API 1. and 2. can be used together and always orthogonalize the view up after each call.
```

API 3. is not intended to be used with other API as it can result to unexpected cameras.

# Image class

> A generic image class that can either created from a window, from an image filepath or even from a data buffer. It supports comparison making it very practical in testing context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A generic image class that can either be created from a window, from an image filepath or even from a data buffer. It supports comparison making it very practical in a testing context.
```

# Log class

> A class to control logging in the libf3d. Simple using the different decicated methods (`print`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`) and `setVerboseLevel`, you can easily control what to display. Please note that, on windows, a dedicated output window may be created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A class to control logging in the libf3d. Simple using the different dedicated methods (`print`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`) and `setVerboseLevel`, you can easily control what to display. Please note that, on windows, a dedicated output window may be created.
```

# Option class

This class lets you control the behavior of the libf3d. An option is basically a string used as a key associated with a value.
Options are organized by categories and subcategories, here is a non-exhaustive explanation of the categories.

>  * `scene` options are related to how the scene is being shown

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * `scene` options are related to how the scene is being displayed
```

 * `render` options are related to the way the render is done

>   * `render.effect` options are related to specific technique used that modify the render

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * `render.effect` options are related to specific techniques used that modify the render
```

>  * `ui` options are related to the screenspace UI element shown

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * `ui` options are related to the screenspace UI element displayed
```

 * `model` options are related to modifications on the model, they are only meaningful when using the default scene
 * `interactor` options requires an interactor to be present to have any effect.

> Please note certain options are taken into accout when rendering, other when loading a file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note certain options are taken into account when rendering, others when loading a file.
```

# libf3d - A library to render 3D meshes

By Michael Migliore and Mathieu Westphal.

libf3d is a BSD-licensed C++ library to open and render 3D meshes. It is of course used by F3D.
libf3d API is simple and easy to learn. Python bindings are provided through pybind11.

> # Getting Started

Reviewer 2: We need to talk about CMake and using `find_package(f3d)` and the available targets.
Maybe an example of a basic CMake usage could be useful.

Author: added a section at the bottom

Rendering a file and starting the interaction is very easy:

```cpp
// Create a f3d::engine
f3d::engine eng();

// Add a file to the loader and load it
eng.getLoader().addFile("path/to/file.ext").loadFile();

// Start rendering and interacting
eng.getInteractor().start();
```

Manipulating the window directly can be done this way:

```cpp
// Create a f3d::engine
f3d::engine eng();

// Add a file to the loader and load it
eng.getLoader().addFile("path/to/file.ext").loadFile();

// Modify the window and render it

> f3d::window& win = eng.getWindow();

Reviewer 2: This line is useless now

// Set the window size and render to a file

> eng.getWindow().setSize(300, 300).renderToImage().save("/path/to/img.png");

Reviewer 2: Maybe return to new line before each call for readability

# libf3d - A library to render 3D meshes

By Michael Migliore and Mathieu Westphal.

libf3d is a BSD-licensed C++ library to open and render 3D meshes. It is of course used by F3D.
libf3d API is simple and easy to learn. Python bindings are provided through pybind11.

# Getting Started

Rendering a file and starting the interaction is very easy:

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```cpp
```

// Create a f3d::engine
f3d::engine eng();

// Add a file to the loader and load it
eng.getLoader().addFile("path/to/file.ext").loadFile();

// Start rendering and interacting
eng.getInteractor().start();
```

Manipulating the window directly can be done this way:

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```cpp
```

// Create a f3d::engine
f3d::engine eng();

// Add a file to the loader and load it
eng.getLoader().addFile("path/to/file.ext").loadFile();

// Modify the window and render it
f3d::window& win = eng.getWindow();

// Set the window size

> win.SetSize(300, 300);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
win.setSize(300, 300);
```

Reviewer 2: And use eng.getLoader() directly

Author: eng.getWindow ? but we need it just below.

Author: I made a change but Im not sure this is the best way to introduce it.

# libf3d - A library to render 3D meshes

By Michael Migliore and Mathieu Westphal.

libf3d is a BSD-licensed C++ library to open and render 3D meshes. It is of course used by F3D.
libf3d API is simple and easy to learn. Python bindings are provided through pybind11.

# Getting Started

Rendering a file and starting the interaction is very easy:

```cpp
// Create a f3d::engine
f3d::engine eng();

// Add a file to the loader and load it
eng.getLoader().addFile("path/to/file.ext").loadFile();

// Start rendering and interacting
eng.getInteractor().start();
```

Manipulating the window directly can be done this way:

```cpp
// Create a f3d::engine
f3d::engine eng();

// Add a file to the loader and load it
eng.getLoader().addFile("path/to/file.ext").loadFile();

// Set the window size and render to an image

> f3d::image& img = eng.getWindow().setSize(300, 300).renderToImage();

Reviewer: I don't think you should use a reference here.

## UI Options
Options|Default|Type|Description|F3D option|Trigger
------|------|------|------|------|------
ui.bar|false|bool|Show *scalar bar* of the coloring by data array.|--bar|render
ui.cheatsheet|false|bool|Show a interactor cheatsheet|render
ui.filename|false|bool|Display the *name of the file*.|--filename|render
ui.font-file||string|Use the provided FreeType compatible font file to display text.<br>Can be useful to display non-ASCII filenames.|--font-file|render
ui.fps|false|bool|Display a *frame per second counter*.|--fps|render
ui.loader-progress|false|bool|Show a *progress bar* when loading the file.|--progress|load
ui.metadata|false|bool|Display the *metadata*.|--metadata|render

## Window Options TODO remove
Options|Default|Type|Description|F3D option|Trigger
------|------|------|------|------|------
window.fullscreen|false|bool|Display in fullscreen.|--fullscreen|render

# Python Bindings

If the python bindings are generated, the libf3d can be used directly from python.
Make sure to set `PYTHONPATH` to path where the python module is built.
Here is an example showing how to use libf3d python bindings:

```python
import f3d

eng = f3d.engine()
eng

>  .getOptions().set("model.scivis.array-name", "Normals")

Reviewer: do you have to repeat the `.getOptions()` for python? Can't you just chain the `.set` calls?

  .set("model.scivis.component", 0)
  .set("ui.bar", True)
  .set("scene.grid", True)

eng.getLoader().addFile("f3d/testing/data/dragon.vtu").loadFile()
eng.getInteractor().start()
```

# Building against the libf3d

Please follow instruction about building F3D in the main readme, then use CMake to find the libf3d

> and link agoinst it like this:

Author: against
